# Predicting-activities-of-the-V4-area-from-natural-images
The human visual system is a hierarchical system that feeds forward visual information from lower to higher cortical areas for sequential visual processing. As the third cortical area in the ventral stream (the pathway responsible for item recognition), V4 is known to play a crucial role in detecting shapes of common objects (Wei, H., Dong, Z., &amp; Wang, L., 2018). Previous models that are able to decode visual input from early visual regions' neural patterns (V1, V2, V3) have been effectively developed even for complex stimuli such as natural images. However, whether a model reproducing the behavior of V4 would be able to accomplish the same goal is unknown. Consequently, we hypothesized that it would be possible to model the shape-extracting abilities of V4 and therefore predict its neural activity in response to natural images.  

To investigate this hypothesis, we choose two approaches; one of them using gabor filters, and the second approach using a KNN classifier.

In approach 1, we filtered the images using a Gabor filter with four different orientations in the center of images, and then linearly combined the filtered images. Next, we fed these features to regression models to relate them with V4 fMRI BOLD responses, and cross-validated our results with a test set of filtered images. We further utilised an optimisation method to uncover the gabor orientations that result in a minimum cost function.

In approach 2, we built a label classifier based on the first array of labels that characterize the stimuli. We experimented with k-nearest neighbors, random forest, and Support Vector Classifier (SVC) in order to predict the right labels based on the V4 voxel responses in the dataset for each stimulus. The accuracies range from 42.69% (KNN) to 50.91% (SVC). Our main result turns out to be a deep understanding of our naivety in thinking we could develop such a model in less than 3 weeks. We conclude that we are having difficulties decoding visual information from the intermediate brain area V4 based on the specific image features that they possess. Future research should investigate our hypothesis of whether other (more advanced) models can le
